I am standing on top of a hill, and like six thousand other hills in high places in Britain,
has this one on top of it. A small squat pillar, made of concrete, about 3 feet high.
Why would anyone make the effort to build six thousand of these weird things known as "triangle points,"
Trigonometry stations, on high points, because it is very complicated to get here, you have to poke tools
you have to lift the cement here, and you build something there, most likely
will continue to stand for centuries. Why would you do that?
The answer is mapping. In 1936, and continuing for another quarter of a century, Brigadier Martin Hotine
and thousands of other people who worked for the Ordnance Survey built these pillars in an effort to re-map Great Britain with trigonometry,
and thus creating the first real accurate map of let country
Look, distance is terribly difficult to measure. But you can measure angles, angles very precisely.
On top of that you have some hooks where you can put a 'theodolite' on, something with which you can measure angles.
And then you build them on these hills, so that at whatever triangular point you are,
you can see at least two other triangle points. And if you can, and you know how goniometry works from high school,
then you can go over one heather somewhere with the angles you have measured with one pre-arranged baseline
measure all distances in Great Britain.
Today, GPS has taken over, of course, and they are not much more than a milestone for hikers
but still, these triangular points meant that we had made a preziese map of Great Britain,
with nothing but a lot of angles and a lot of math.
Translated by Bram Wilhelm, KrossLayer.